Stand up, guys-
They are here now.
God gave us hands,
so we have to work.
Since we are here, we have to work.
Everybody works 12 hours.
Some do work that requires
physical strength.
Some use their mind.
Some work requires hands and feet,
some work requires brains.
Some people have to use their muscles,
some use their pens.
There are different systems.
Some work on machines.
I do different things.
The machines have to be controlled,
either by using a button or the brain.
If I am supposed to move this,
I need to use my brain
to control the movement.
There, you push a button.
It has a computer system.
But here,
I need to use strength and brains.
Or I would break my hands and legs.
This has 220 kilograms of Chemicals.
This has 100 kilograms.
That one has 60.
Everything has different
systems and weights.
That is how things are made.
The color will be made
according to the order.
Sixty, 50, 40, 35 kilograms.
Whatever is needed.
100, 200, 220,
that's the amount you make in color.
You make it to match the order.
Working on the Wheel
pays 210 rupees per shift.
From that I have to eat,
save and raise my family.
When I think about
having to raise my kids with this money,
I try saving 1,000, 1,500, 2,000 rupees.
The mill doesn't run
every day of the month.
Tell me, who has the strength
to work nonstop for 36-48 hours?
You have to break and twist your body
to save a paisa or two.
How would the wealthy know
the problems of the poor?
What am I even doing here
when I have everything back home?
But it is poverty
that makes a poor man take loans
to come here to work.
When I don't have the money to come here,
I borrow at ten percent interest.
I earn by hard labor, sir.
It's a 12-hour shift here.
You come at 8:00 in the morning
and leave at 8:00 in the evening.
Once back, I cook and eat.
Then after an hour's break,
I come for a second shift at 9:00 p.m.
There are no other options.
But what is poverty anyway?
Poverty is harassment, sir.
One has to forsake one's kids,
wife and parents to come here.
You can't do anything.
There is no cure.
Sir, let me tell you
that nobody is exploiting me.
I have taken loans
to come here to work.
For my own needs, to raise my kids.
Exploitation would mean
that I am being forced to work here.
Wouldn't it?
I have come from far away.
I have traveled 1,600 kilometers
so I can work here.
Of my own free will.
Nobody is pressuring me.
We all come here in order to work,
as we're in debt.
There are thousands like me.
The train I travel in has four carriages,
but there's not an inch of free space.
You can't sit down,
you have to stand for 36 hours.
There is neither water nor food.
I carry roasted chickpeas.
For 36 hours there is no food.
The only money
I spend is on chewing tobacco.
What other habit can I truly afford?
I can't even afford a cigarette.
A cigarette is five rupees or ten.
I can't afford it.
A packet of chewing tobacco
is two rupees and lasts all day.
Won't you need a buzz
if you work all day?
Chewing tobacco gives you relief.
Not even the supervisor
or the boss can say anything.
All day you work, so chewing tobacco
gives you a moment to sit and breathe.
You have to work
12 hours, no matter what.
You work on and on and on
until the 12 hours are over.
When I arrive at the gate for work,
I feel like turning back right there.
When I arrive at the gate,
my gut tells me...
that I should just turn back.
But it's not good to turn back.
What you learn as a child,
you cannot learn as an adult.
If you pay attention
to the machines when you are young,
you become sharper as an adult.
You become skilled.
Whatever you learn,
you should learn as a child.
If I learn this now,
then I can do any work later.
Take out 24 bundles,
and then fill it with 24 more bundles.
- You got the ones from below?
- Yes.
You are me queen of me palaces I
I am the king of the streets ♪
Go if you want to ♪
Do as you wish I
If you leave in anger I
You will hear news of my death ♪
Oh my beloved my beloved ♪
Go if you want to ♪
Do as you wish I
If you leave in anger I
You will hear news of my death ♪
This brand... It costs a thousand!
We can discuss the price.
I like this one.
How much is it?
This material is good for the summer.
We call it "voile."
They call it “bawared”
It's expensive.
- You mean this one?
- Yes.
You mean it's better
than the one from Korea?
I'm talking about “jacquard”
- It's comfortable to wear.
- Hm ...
This costs 100... 100...
I swear, nowadays it's 127 in dollars.
Buzz off!
Pull out the trash.
Pull it out with your hands.
There”s copper in there.
- It's sticky.
- Pull it!
Pull it out!
- Don't put it on me!
- Pull it all out.
- Where did it fall?
- Take hold of it and pull.
Come on!
- It's Sticky. WII it come off?
- Of course it will.
There is a lot for you to take out.
Just wait.
It's falling.
This state, Gujarat...
The state of Gujarat has
fed the stomachs of the poor.
If there's no food, nothing at home,
a child of 10, 15 or 20 years of age comes
and earns up to 6,000 rupees a month.
Even if he's not able to save anything,
he is at least able to feed himself.
In some states,
there's no shortage of labor.
In Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Bengal, Orissa...
Chhattisgarh.
If men from there
didn't come to Gujarat to work,
not even a fly would land here.
No mill would run.
If the workers unite,
they can get the bosses to yield.
But the laborers are not united.
If they were,
their circumstances wouldn't be so dire.
We'd work for eight hours instead of 12,
get paid for eight and go home.
We could get rights, funds and bonus.
Here you get your wages
and are then supposed to leave.
We get nothing, no funds, bonus, holidays.
Nobody gets anything.
You do your duty for a month,
get your wages and leave.
If they find any problems,
they slap you and throw you out.
That's the problem here.
If the laborers had any unity,
they wouldn't be going through this.
Today the laborer can become a tiger.
But due to a lack of unity,
the laborer is a sheep.
Why is there no unity? Because then there
would be eight-hour shifts.
The bosses would have to com ply.
But when the laborers do unite,
the leader is usually killed.
They finish him off.
The moment people form a union, they ask,
Who is the leader?"
Then the bosses get together
and finish the leader off.
Union?
I am the union.
Unions exist,
but they are at a lower level
than the contractor.
If the contractor is useless,
then there'll be a union.
If the contractor is good,
nobody has the strength to make a union.
I am strong.
My laborers don't go anywhere,
so what will a union do?
Nobody can do anything to me.
I can give them two slaps.
If you've been laid off
and the mill is shut down
then what will you do?
Will you go back to Uttar Pradesh?
Will you come back from Uttar Pradesh
to fight for your case?
It's a simple thing,
I am telling you.
Neither you or I could do it.
I can't come from Uttar Pradesh, spending
To attend one case
will cost you 1,000 rupees.
Once you're here, you'll also have to
spend on food and water.
This is distressful.
Will a person who doesn't
have any food to eat
think about fighting a case
from Uttar Pradesh?
Will he?
That is why the unions are weak.
And why the laborers
can't support the unions.
And what does a contractor do?
He's always there to help the laborer.
If the laborer ever needs money,
he gives it to him.
Be it 50 rupees, 100 or 150,
the contractor gives it to him.
That's why he is successful
and the union is weak.
The pay is very poor,
given the work we do.
For example, if it's the two of us.
What can two people do?
Even if we skip two days work in protest.
The company doesn't close
because of two people not coming to work.
One man thinks, 'We should put pressure on
the company and its owner."
The other man thinks,
"No, this is wrong. We'll starve to death.
We have no one here.
Who will feed us?”
Thus, the workers compromise.
And they just carry on.
Why would I get angry
if I am being paid for the work I do?
You don't just get angry like that.
You get angry if there is a reason.
If someone says something nasty.
It's not as if the boss insults us.
The workers here insult each other
and get angry with each other.
Nobody else says anything to us.
The boss never comes.
I don't even know who the boss is,
what he does.
I don't know anything about the boss.
I know the company's gate.
I am a worker who works here.
I know my section, I know my room.
That's it.
This is all I have. From here to my room
and from my room to here.
Neither do I know who the boss is,
nor how he looks.
I don't know anything.
What are you directing here?
Because of the drought,
nothing is growing.
We are farmers.
This time our crops failed completely.
Then we planted potatoes. We planted
potatoes for 20 rupees per kilo.
We sold it for five rupees per kilo.
So how much loss did the peasant suffer?
He lost 15 rupees per kilo.
What will he do with that money?
Spend it on his kids' education?
Or spend it on farming?
How will he be able to get grain?
If 15 rupees are gone
and only five rupees are left,
he has to feed his family
from the remaining five rupees.
You also have to pay
for your Children's education.
Otherwise, the kids run away.
That's why you have
to work in a factory.
You have to find another place.
Nobody does any research about this.
People just come here,
look at our problems and leave.
Nobody is ready to take any action.
You are asking us about our problems.
When we are presenting them to you,
why don't you do something about it?
Get our shifts reduced to eight hours!
Turn 12 hours into eight-hour shifts.
If you have the capacity, then do it.
All the workers will agree.
They will all agree.
We will follow you wherever you take us.
We'll skip work.
- Right, guys? Will you come?
- Yes!
What do you say?
Why have you come here? Tell us honestly.
You will leave after listening to us,
just as the ministers do.
They come here,
deliver their speeches and leave.
For us workers,
it's the same story on and on again.
If you really want to do something
for the workers,
then tell us what to do.
My only satisfaction is
that everyone dies.
Nobody takes anything with them.
Even when the rich go,
they leave the world with nothing.